Okay, we're going to take a closer look
at Docker Files. We've been working
with the Mongo image, so I'm going to go
ahead and take a look at that. We're
going to look at how that Mongo image was
built, and get into the nitty-gritty of
the Docker File. The contents of that. Now,
I'm not going to dive too deep into the
commands on the Docker File. This is
something that we're going to be working
with a lot. We're going to be writing our
own Docker Files coming up. The purpose
of this video is just get your feet wet
and see how, we're going to examine how a
very popular Docker image has been
created. How those image layers are
going to work together in this video. Okay,
so we want to talk about Docker Files.
Docker Files are a very important thing.
Up here, in the screen, I have the
official repository for the Mongo Docker
Image, and over here, I've already clicked
through it, but if we click on this link,
here it go into the Docker File. What this
is going to do, is show us the Docker
File behind it. So, this is showing Docker
library/mongo, and we just want to
start getting into an introduction on
what's going on behind the scenes,
because we are going to get further into
Docker Files in this course. But at this
point, I just want to give you an idea of
what's going on and how the Docker Files
relate to an image. So Docker File is
really a recipe for the image. We're
saying, right at the top there, on line
one, we're saying from debian : wheezy so
we're asking for a specific image of the
Debian image, out of the Docker
repository for the tag of wheezy. So
we're asking for very specific image
there by using the tag name. Docker
hub or the docker repository is inferred
from that tag. Now, we're going through a
series of commands here, and what we're
doing, is we are adding in a number of
things. We're preparing that image. So
like on line 4,
we're adding in a new user for the Mongo
database. That's a service account for
the database. Now on line 6 to line 9, we
are running a command and see the
slashes there? Effectively, what's
happening is, each group of commands is
going to create an image layer. So every
command that you run in the Docker File
will create a new image layer, that
makes up the image as a whole. So, see if
I can highlight this. So, this will create
a layer, and this will create a layer,
this is going to create a layer. So
that's why, we had multiple layers making
up our Mongo image. Now another thing I
want to point out, is we did say that we
are inheriting from Debian. Now, I'm
going to come over here, and this is the
Debian wheezy Docker file, and you can
see here, it's basically loading up a
tarball and then running command. So this it's going
to say from scratch. And from scratch is
a special Docker Image. It's really
like the base of base images. The
add command is adding in effectively a
tarball for the Debian operating system.
So this could easily have a Red Hat
instance. It could have a CentOS
instance. So it could have been a number
different Linux instances, but the Mongo
team chose to use Debian, for whatever
their particular reasons are. So a key
takeaway, that I want you to have from
this is, is how Docker images can inherit
from each other. So our Mongo inherited
from the Debian image. So that was
the starting image. Then we did, we said
from that, so now I could write my own
Docker File, if I wanted to extend out
the Mongo image, if I want to add in some
type of tool, or some type of monitoring
tool or whatever it happens to be. If
there's something here, that it wasn't
there for me and
particular application, I could make my
own Docker File. Say from Mongo, which
would my file would inherit from Mongo,
which inherited from the Debian image. So,
we could easily extend that out and it's
quite frequent to do that inside the
Docker community. When you start
getting into enterprise applications, you
are going to be doing stuff like this.
Now, the fact that they share image
layers, that's very important, so I want
to point out something to you there. Okay,
to help visualize things, we were to take
the Mongo image here. Call this guy
Mongo. And then, also the Debian image.
The Debian image is going to have layers.
It could be made up of a few different layers.
Mongo is also going to have layers. I
will see more of them because we saw in
the Docker files, there's more commands.
Now, the debian is probably one or two
layers, not as many as Mongo. I'm just
doing this for illustrative purposes. Now,
these are going to be the same. These are
the same file, so it can be come down.
They are going to share these on your
host system. So if you had other images
that were dependent upon the same Debian
instance, these files here, those would be
shared amongst those images. So this is a
very important concept to understand
where your images are made up of
different layers. Those layers do have a
hash value. And if you have inherited
from the same base image, you will share
those same image files. So if you think
if you're running dozens of containers
on a shared server, this comes into play,
because it affects how much disk space
and resources you're going to be
utilizing. It sounds a little weird at
first, but this is actually a very
efficient way of sharing multiple
containers and images running on the
same host hardware. Alright, so I hope you
have a lot better understanding of how
things are coming together. How an image
works and how a Docker file defines that
image. We get those image layers as
individual image layers, which are
effectively files, not on the operating
system that contain files and
directories that get a short value
hash value and how those are some are
assembled to make an image. And then the
Docker Daemon is going to make a container out
of that image. So this is very
important concept of how these are going
to be pulled down. We'll have groups of
image, just being pulled down. So now, if I,
in this example, I alluded to the
video, so we have a debian base image. Now
if I had three other things running
Debian and I was bringing down
Mongo for the first time, those images,
shared at the debian unit image, it
wouldn't pull those down. It's just going to
pull down the ones that they need
from the Docker repository. So very
important concept. When you're
dealing with containers, you got to start
thinking not about running just your
container. You're going to be running many
different containers and so we're going to
get into that later down, in the course.
But this is a very important concept. I
want you to start getting your head
around how these layers are used to
build up a Docker image and how these
layers are actually shared across
multiple Docker Images.